>> Steve Kinney: So, we've like started
with doing everything in component state.
And then we moved to a flux architecture.
And then we moved to redux,
which is like an implementational flux.
And then we focused on a whole
bunch of asynchronous models for
dealing with redux.
What we're gonna do now is
shift gears a little bit.
We're gonna talk about a different
way of thinking about state and
managing state in our application
in a library called Mobx.
We are gonna again dive a little bit into
the JavaScript programming language to
understand some of the things
that we might see along the way.
So let's do that.
First, we are gonna talk a little
bit about Computed Properties.
Which are technically an ES5 feature, but
we'll see why you probably
didn't hear of them until ES6.
So let's talk about the problem
that they're solving first.
So here we have a person class and
it's got a first name and a last name.
Seems legit.
But if we wanna get the full name,
that's weird, right?
It's a function.
And so now we have this like kind of
squirrely API where we can make a new
person and we can call up person.firstName
and we're gonna get Grace.
And we call person.lastName
where we got Hopper.
If we call person.fullName,
we're going to get a function signature.
Or reference to a function, right?
And this kind of breaks what we
normally call the universal access
principle, right?
Where like the person consuming our code
shouldn't have to know the difference.
And so here they would have to know that
this one is a function, and it breaks
that principle that we try to adhere to
whenever possible, and that's not great.
And different libraries have
done different things to try
to get around this.
I think about Ruby.
Really everything is
technically a method call.
Right, and you don't need the parenthesis.
So you actually always using
the parenthesis but they are optional so
you never think about the difference.
That's one way of like enforcing that.
But more commonly we see
stuff like backbone and
amber where no matter what,
you have to use a get and a set method,
right, and you're not supposed
to access stuff directly.
That would be true in React if we had
a get state on the actual component state,
we would never touch the state directly,
we'd only set state and use get state.
But the idea there is even a not
great syntax, having to use get and
set all the time and passing the string.
So the property1 can sometimes be
better than inconsistency right?
Consistent not great is usually
better than inconsistency at large.
But it turns out in ES6 we can do this.
And the only difference here
from what we saw previously is,
I use this little get
keyword before the method.
And now, look at that.
I can, I got the universal
access principle, right?
I can just simply go ahead and
use it the same way,
it's technically gonna call that
function and everything is great.
And I can wear my sunglasses.
So I mentioned a little bit earlier that
these are actually present in ES5 that
you could do this.
And like, if you think about working with
like, just like vanilla DOM manipulation.
We know that we can assign stuff to
the inner text and stuff will change.
We know that there's things that
you can keep assigning stuff and
they don't change.
We know that in a lot of
the internal browser APIs.
Equal does weird things, right?
It'll update the DOM,
it will like be ignored in other cases.
So a lot of this has been
kind of under the hood.
And so the reason you probably didn't see
it a lot in ES5 is cuz this is what it
looked like in ES5.
[LAUGH] You would create
the person constructor, and
then you'd use this object
to define property.
And if it makes you feel any better, there
is an object to define properties, so
you could do more of these at once.
And you'd give it a target object,
which property you wanted
to have some insight into.
And then an object full
of different options.
So here we are implementing the getter
that we saw with that three
letters in ES6 is a little
bit more ceremony in ES5.
So now that we have that.
It's been there previously.
And there is other things you can do.
But I'm gonna punt on that for a little
bit, to a one more JavaScript topic.